Reviewer: 1

Comments to the Author
* The illustration in Figure 1 is confusing. Can you please replace it
with a better formulation to compute the cost function? The example in
[6] is clear.
* It is somewhat unusual to refer a paper [6] with its second author
(Bradonjic et al.). Please use the first author's name.

Reviewer: 2

Comments to the Author
 This paper studies the network recovery problem, where the goal is to
reconstruct a network  one node at a time and the cost of recovery for
a node depends on the existing edges on the network. The paper defines
the problem  shows  that it is strongly NP-hard; gives a lower bound
for approximation, and proposes a new integer programming formulation
that is  faster than a previous one.

The paper improves on an existing paper (cited as [6]) published on
the same journal in 2014, and the first authors for the two papers are
the same. It was puzzling to me why the authors chose to refer to [6]
with the name of the second author as Brandojic et al.

 I find the contributions of this paper to be very incremental and I
do not think they are significant enough for a new publication.   The
strong NP-completeness result  comes directly from  the max-clique
problem. I don't think a separate construction is necessary. One can
just state that the  max-clique problem is an instance for this
problem and move on.  Similarly,  the lower bound result follows from
results on the clique problem. Along the same lines, any bound for the
clique problem would apply to the recovery problem as a lower bound.
And I  do not think  stating these  would merit a new paper.

The "new" integer programming formulation is based on a paper
published in 1960,  and can be applied to any problem that includes
ordering of a larger set ( edges in this case) is dictated by ordering
of a smaller set (vertices).  These cuts  have been  applied to other
ordering problems such as the traveling salesperson problem.  And I
would expect  any computational study to use such cuts anyway. So I do
 not think introducing these cuts from 1960 is a significant
contribution either.

 In summary, I find the contributions of this paper  not to be
significant enough for publication in this journal.



Reviewer: 3

Comments to the Author
The paper studies an interesting combinatorial formulation for a
network recovery problem developed in an earlier paper. The main
contributions are hardness results for the decision and approximation
versions, under a convex decreasing cost function. They also study
the fixed parameter complexity. An interesting observation is the
structural result about how connectivity changes the cost of
the solution. The final result is a simple IP and its evaluation.
The paper is generally pretty well written.

The technical contributions are borderline. Strengthening them either
in terms of the theoretical results or the empirical results would be good.

Lemma 1: instead of "as above", it would be better to refer to the
proof of theorem 5.
Also, I assume \sigma is the optimal traversal. This should be stated. The
proof needs more clarification. In case 1, why are the u_i's all free? Case 2
is also not very clear.

Proof of theorem 7: it will be good to clarify why the nodes after k are free
if we have a C-approximation. The last part of this proof should also be
explained further.

section 4, para 1: there might be some functions for which one can
construct greedy traversals which are not connected. I believe the
correct statement is that there exists a greedy traversal that is
connected. This should be clarified.

The experimental results section is pretty sparse. What kinds of graphs
were used? The only observation here is about the running time. It might
be good to add some more experimental results, and see what the structure
of the solution is.

- introduction, para 2: Bradonjic et al. should be Gutfraind et al.
- page 3, para 2: "NANIP model" --> "NANIP problem"
- page 3, para 3: "Similarly to ..." --> "Similar to"
